good evening I'm currently a master
student at the University of Birmingham
but I also work part-time at my local
supermarket during my shifts I cut a
quite a lot of customers therefore I'm
wondering why Germany has mustard over
half a million tests per week whereas
we've only managed five to eight
thousand per day why does the panel
think this has happened well Matt you
were talking about this in the press
conference earlier on today why have we
lagged behind why are we taking so long
to get even as far as we have well we've
got one of the biggest testing programs
in Europe but there are places like
Germany where they have been able to to
do more tests because they started with
a huge Diagnostics industry which is
just not the thing that we've we've had
traditionally as a country they've been
the European center of Diagnostics
started with over a hundred labs in
Germany but none of that takes away from
the absolutely accurate point which is
that we want more testing I mean of
course I understand why people want the
certainty that you get from from having
a test so we're ramping up testing we've
hit the goal of having 10,000 tests a
day by the end of March and today I've
set the goal of hundred thousand tests a
day by the end of this month and to do
that just because I wasn't I didn't
quite understand that in the press
conference because there was a talk of
25,000 by the end of the month and
100,000 by the end of month we hundred
thousand by the end of the month and
that's to test if people have the goal
was 25,000 and by having a pulling
together a national effort I think we
can get to a hundred thousand so that's
the goal I've set today and and you know
the whole the whole pharmaceutical
industry is going to have to help and
play its part in the same way that we've
got manufacturers expert manufacturers
who've never manufactured a ventilator
before now manufacturing ventilators the
pharmaceutical industry that normally
deals in other types of drugs like
vaccines and what have you they are
joining this national effort to get
enough
testing so we do test more we've tested
more than France the Netherlands lots of
other similar countries but there are
countries like Germany that are ahead of
us and I think that we've got to
increase the amount of amount of testing
and that that's important so that's what
we're gonna have to do so just to be
clear the aim is a hundred thousand by
the end of this month
to test people if they have coronavirus
not if they've had it but if they
actually have it at the time of taking
the test it's a hundred thousand tests
overall as you say there are two
different types of 600,000 for both
types of tests for exactly on all the
different strands of testing policy we
have five different strands I won't go
through the details of it but you're
right that essentially there are there
are two types there's either the test
the swab test to see if you've got it or
a blood test to see if you have had it
but the the latter the science isn't yet
developed enough for those tests to be
in large scale good enough to be not to
give false results which is worse than
having no test at all because it gives
false comfort so the just actually the
25,000 times by the end of April is to
see if people have the symptoms that was
the old cough right the policy is really
clear it is that by the end of this
month we are going to have a hundred
thousand tests per day that is what we
need to do as a country to test if
people have got coronavirus and if they
have had it with a whole lot both types
of tests okay I've got that clear event
so I strongly welcome the measures that
matt has announced today I think having
the sort of strong commitment to
broadening the number of organizations
that are involved in doing the testing
you know the universities the private
sector the charitable sector all of that
I think that is really good that's
really important if we're honest this
has been hugely frustrating the whole
process up to now and the concern the
confusion about the testing but actually
to have that commitment to broaden it
out is really welcomed because I think
that there's the centralized approach
and just using Phe they're doing a great
job but it is just not enough to do the
scale of the test
we clearly need but I still have I mean
obviously look there are questions about
you know how and why we got to here and
when and so on but put those aside
because the important thing is where we
go now I still have a big question about
the overall objective with this and how
this testing fits into the wider
strategy because I'm not sure what your
plan is around the community testing is
the community testing just going to be
the antibodies that have you had it are
you now immune and is it an immunity
test for the community or is the
community testing strategy about whether
people are infectious the kind of South
Korea strategy testing people tracing
the contacts and so on which the w-h-o
has always called for and there's been
this whole debate in Britain about
really whether the government's strategy
was immunity or whether it was
suppression and it's never really been
clear to us and I'm still not clear with
this testing strategy whether you're
pursuing immunity or whether you're
pursuing suppression as the ultimate
objective we're really clear we are
bending the curve down so if you like if
you call it call it what you will it is
about getting the curve of the virus
down to slow the spread it is not about
trying to achieve immunity of the whole
population it's about trying to get the
curve down and protect lives and to do
that you need both types of tests
exactly as you say yeah you need both
the tests to test if people have had it
and therefore that they're likely to be
immune like hopefully I am but the to
get lots of those that people keep
trying to sell me these tests like
pregnancy type tests we keep checking
whether they work and so far we haven't
found one that works and then also
ramping up the the so-called swab test
you know a swab up your nose to find out
if you currently have the virus both of
those are very important so will you do
that ye there the community testing of
the current infection are you planning
to increase the tracing and so on as
well because I
understand the flattening the curve
absolutely right everybody wants to make
sure that the NHS can can cope and you
know they are real heroes dealing with
this at the moment but in terms of how
we come out of the lockdown how we come
through this is it by getting more
people to have had it which seemed to be
the government's strategy at the
beginning which was obviously worrying
or is it by getting to a point where we
can do proper community testing and
tracing and if it's the second which I
hope that's great the questions I
thought you know if you get that level
of community testing and tracing for
infection don't you need to go way way
beyond the hundred thousand that you're
talking about at the moment shouldn't we
be setting a much bigger objective even
if we can't get there in a month yes we
have a goal of 250,000 but I wanted to
put a timeframe on it and I wanted to
say to the to my team to the team at
public health England who've been
brilliant on this to the NHS and to the
life sciences industry and the companies
involved and the charity all the rest of
them this is our collective goal put a
date on it put a number on it
you know I I'm the one who's I put that
there I've said that this is our goal
and we've now got to make it happen and
just there is a one further short really
important point in this which is that
and of course getting to broad community
testing is important and is the goal but
we have to prioritize the tests that
we've got starting with the patients for
whom it can be a life-or-death matter
then the critical NHS staff then a key
workers and and once we've got enough
tests for all of them we can we can then
get to the two that people coming into
the hospital come in for the community
so there is Kovac 19 in the community so
we do have to test the community because
it's not just existing in a hospital and
if you look across from Ireland many of
the people that are getting overnighting
in the community so one of the things
that you and I know is it's important
that if your child's got a cough you
understand all you've got a cough you
understand what it is because nor do you
want to be a spreader or nor do you want
to self isolate for 14 days unless you
know that you've got it so it's hugely
important and it we are going to have to
ramp up the tests across the community
we have focused on in the hospitals
because we know it's a place where it's
spreading but equally we know that one
in ten workers from who what your health
care workers are also people that are
spreading the virus so we need the tests
both in the community and in hospitals I
noticed that that Matt you you wouldn't
commit to saying when health workers
would get the coronavirus test that they
required as many as they felt they need
in order to be able to see if they've
got symptoms if they were infectious or
not whether they could come back to work
what's your your feeling about that
Donna well we have to get it because if
we don't get it we won't be able to work
so what we what we know is although the
figures are getting better from this
evening's press conference we know that
any one time between 25 and 40 percent
of our health care workers are self
isolating so we've got so anyway the
figure that you what did you say Matt
you said something like five point seven
point seven percent of doctors got an 8%
of all NHS because on Monday we were
told it was 2050 ever that was a that
survey was was not a accurate survey and
so I wanted to get that figure and
explained it to the public because you
know eight percent is still a it was
much lower than people had previously
reported but it's still a high figure
and this is why Donna is completely
right about the need for the for the
testing within the NHS and and then once
we've got to that then we can keep the
numbers going up and keep expanding
let me just John I want to come to me
I'm just going to read out some of the
the tweets that we're getting in or that
that's the comments were getting in Bevo
would you agree that you would slow off
the mark this is obviously addressing
humor you knew this was coming yet
testing in ventilators requested a
late-stage isn't part of the problem
says Brian Russell we started on the
wrong track with her
mentality and then change I think it
means herd immunity and then change
track this meant we're at the back of
the queue for buying tests someone who
refers self only as JC what is the block
of to getting to a hundred thousand
tests per day right now is it money lack
of testing kids I mean I mean John
you're listening to this what's your
view first of all I want to begin by
praising the NHS staff and in my book
that should get the tests there should
be a priority just like the patients
because they are putting their lives in
great danger and because of their
calling and of their vocation
nevertheless they still go so I would
afford the priority should have been
really the patient's and all those who
are on the front line of doing it
plus those who are being social care I
think the testing should happen and in
in the end I don't think that the
government actually would have prepared
better this so this is almost like a
family bereavement you can do your best
but when it happens it hits you pretty
hard
it's almost like having an earthquake
you can prepare as much as you like but
until it happens it becomes very
difficult what the government I think
hasn't done is to do what Kitchener did
your country needs you so would have
galvanized all my industry is everything
that they've got your coming to you
slightly late I mean when you have for
example from the one myself has been
saying they are capable of producing
breathing equipment they can produce a
thousand a day there are many other
companies that actually cooled without
relying on things coming from overseas
to so you need now to galvanize all the
industries and all the scientists and
everybody else and say we are to war
with this invisible danger and therefore
we want you to do everything that you
can do and solve for the rest of us who
are not in the frontline we need to do
exactly what you say staying at home you
know protecting the NHS and our ad and
children and then save lives this is
what we could do but collectively this
country could manufacture some of all
that stuff pretty fast pretty quickly if
all the industries were invited to come
at the table so thank you
you become you come to two-bit legs you
should have you should have really done
it and for the things we've done so far
I just want to say some of them
particularly that you gave the
responsibility to science I think that
was a good thing to do but you didn't
involve all the scientists that needed
to come and it would have already I
think had more personal protection
equipment much faster because in this
country those things can be not subject
very quickly and very fast and then the
police role of the army should have
found them you know somebody who is good
in logistics you know who has been good
in a battle war to distribute things to
be in charge of it and not just they
have professionals because their role is
to heal is the support is to encourage
have you found a great a great Brigadier
our major commanding the distribution of
all of this and not just relying on
haphazard way of doing it just picking
up on those obviously because I agree I
agree so much we have we've got
Brigadier Phil Prosser an absolutely
remarkable man who is in charge of the
logistical effort of getting this
protective equipment out and the army
have been brilliant in responding to
this do you also agree with John that
you've come to this a bit late I think
it's a bit unfair because on the testing
for instance we've had the private
companies the testing the British
diagnostic companies involved in this
from the start
and we just had to cast the net wider
and wider to get things going faster and
faster so for instance the universities
and the university labs they've been
involved the companies that are like
thermo Fisher a global company and like
ran docks which is a British company
they've been involved for a for a long
time but but I agree but I know that I
explained I say that to explain what
we've been doing but I agree with the
Archbishop's point which is this really
is a national effort everybody can play
their part whether it's by staying at
home or whether it's if you're in one of
these industries where you can really do
your bit then by stepping up
the play and if I just warn example
GlaxoSmithKline great British business
never done any testing before in its
life but pharmaceuticals obviously quite
close to testing other than the bread
very briefly it did some for the
Olympics and they when I phoned them up
and said you've really got to turn your
great industrial muscle to this problem
they said how do we help let's do it
let's make it happen and that's the
attitude that we need if I may soon say
yes there's some stuff you've done and
I'm not critical of because this is
something you can never prepare for what
I'm trying to say today I had you for
the first time calling upon all industry
all universities all labs why didn't you
do that two weeks ago that's why I'm
talking about galvanizing together
everybody to me was today not okay it's
literally two weeks ago we did do the
same call but I obviously didn't get it
to your ears and and you know what in
this in this great response to this
virus and you know you just do
everything you can and we're just when
we come up with an idea if we haven't
thought of it before I'm not going to
you know I'm not going to actually tell
you about we just could we just get on
with it and actually I have to say this
has been true the the response of the
country as a whole has been great
because you know people haven't been
political or picking things apart
generally the sense is you know we are
this is a war as Archbishop sent to me
just said but it's a war in which we're
all on the same side and that changes
the way that we deal with it because it
means we've all got to pull together and
I think that's completely right I think
this is something where you want the
whole country pulling together and it is
why you want all of the industry you
want all of the different organizations
and everybody wants to be part of this
and wants to innovate I guess the only
thing that I would would add is I think
that you said something really important
today Matt when you talked about
leveling with people and I think that
does also mean actually also leveling
with people and being honest about
things that actually maybe should have
happened faster or should have been done
earlier
because a part of the reason I think
that is important because it's about
building trust yeah and when you're in a
pandemic trust really really matters and
if people think or if NHS workers who
are really on the frontline of this and
really struggling with you know a lot of
the things that the pressures that they
are facing if they lose trust and feel
like they're being given a line from
press release or whatever then that
makes it much harder to build that that
collective thing so you know whilst I
would strongly support the measures that
you've announced today I think I would
probably also urge you to also be honest
about the things that may have gone
wrong earlier on or may not have slotted
into place as fast as as they should
have done and I think the impact if
you're not honest is we lose confidence
so you know people hearing about Great
Ormond Street this afternoon having a
problem with its cardiac we will lose
confidence because then why were they
having a problem because there we had
somebody that was infected operating and
that means that the staff will now need
to self isolate patients will have to be
trapped and contacted so it is important
that actually we do have the tests
available because you know I was having
a debate on news night the other night
Chris Hobson was saying there's only two
tests available so the timelines for us
to get to the swabs and having them
on-site in the hospital need to be
explicit because otherwise we lose
confidence in the you know cut the
frontline staff
lose confidence in what people are
saying mmm I think this transparency is
very important and and also being clear
about some of the challenges right this
is difficult and there will be there
will be bumps in the road I hoped that
by now these antibody tests the blood
tests you know we we bought a lot of
them we bought from nine different
companies and it's disappointing that
the first few ones that we've run are
just not high enough quality but we've
been completely upfront about the fact
that we bought them they haven't worked
and we'll keep searching until we find
one that's good enough and it probably
is also fair to say there was a
confusion early on about what the
strategy was on the sort of immunity
suppression and everyone
he's never with me in case there's been
different views within the government
and you know that does happen we
understand that will happen sometimes I
don't know I'm not going to get into the
sort of the communications of it but it
that is yeah we're really clear about
the strategy here it is to save lives by
flattening the curve and building the
NHS with capacity
[Music]
you